Overview

This package contains functional tests for WLAN core

Requirements

Running the tests in the package requires
  * linux >= 2.6.15 with nl80211-using WLAN driver
  * GNU libc >= 2.3
  * libnl

Building the package

The package should build cleanly with GCC 4.x with the mentioned libraries.
The preferred way is to use the Debian packaging tools for the build; these
will run Autotools for configuration and makefile generation.

The package builds (from the source tree root) with

 $ dpkg-buildpackage

( you may need some combination of '-rfakeroot', '-uc', '-us', etc, depending
  on your system configuration )

Alternatively, the packaging can be skipped by just running with Autotools:

 $ ./autogen.sh
 $ ./configure
 $ make

Installation

Login as root and install the package (dpkg -i [package name] if Debian
package).

Required hardware for testing over the air:

    * DUT, running the test asset
    * WLAN access point, for AP-using tests
    * A second DUT or other supported device for "ad-hoc" (IBSS) tests.

Multiple access points with different static configurations can be used
instead of changing the AP configuration directly.

Access point SSID parameters in configuration file (default:
/etc/blts/blts-wlan-core-tests.cnf).

    * open_ssid - SSID for an existing open AP
    * wep_ssid - SSID for an existing WEP-encrypted AP
    * wpa_ssid - SSID for an existing WPA-encrypted AP
    * adhoc_ssid - SSID for an existing open adhoc network

The access point used must support DHCP discovery, either by itself or via a
suitable network arrangement. SSIDs, keys and passphrases used must be
entered in the test configuration file.

Requirements for individual test cases:

    * Test "Core-WLAN-Enumerate hardware": No special
      requirements. Configuration parameter expected_phys is space separated
      list of expected physical layer devices to check e.g. "phy0 phy1 phy2"

    * Test "Core-WLAN-Enumerate supported features" No special
      requirements. Configuration parameter wlan_device is used to define
      the device where commands and parameters are enumerated e.g "wlan0"

    * Tests "Core-WLAN-Scan for specific AP", "Core-WLAN-Associate with open
      AP", "Core-WLAN-Scan and associate on max power save",
      "Core-WLAN-Disconnect with deauthenticate", "Core-WLAN-Disconnect with
      disassociate" and "Core-WLAN-Disconnect with AP loss": Existing open
      AP is required, Configuration parameter wlan_device is used to define
      the wlan device to use and configuration parameter open_ssid is used
      to define the SSID of the existing open AP.

    * Test "Core-WLAN-Associate with WEP encryption": Access point must be
      set to WEP mode, Configuration parameters affected: wep_ssid is the
      access point SSID, wep_keys are WEP encryption keys and wep_tx_keyidx
      is the default key to transmit.

    * Test "Core-WLAN-Disconnect from adhoc network": Existing adhoc network
      where DUT can be joined or optionally wlan station that supports adhoc
      connections. Configuration parameter wlan_device is used to define the
      wlan device to use and configuration parameter adhoc_ssid is used to
      define the SSID of the existing open AP.

    * Test "Core-WLAN-Associate with WPA2-PSK AP": Access point must be set
      to WPA2 mode, with pre-shared key authentication. Configuration
      parameters affected: wpa_ssid is the access point SSID, wpa_passphrase
      is the passphrase used.


Running the tests

Run all tests:
blts-wlan-core-tests

Show cases:
blts-wlan-core-tests -s

Use config file:
blts-wlan-core-tests -C <config file>

NOTE: Example configuration file is installed to /etc/blts/ , and is used
as default.

Run single case like nro 1:
blts-wlan-core-tests -e 1

Run a single case with its name (note quotes when there are spaces in the name):
blts-wlan-core-tests -en "Test case name"


Known issues

* MeeGo Connman, wpa_supplicant and the test asset use similar methods of
  accessing the WLAN adapter. Consequently, many tests will fail due to
  conflicting commands from the test cases and other device users. To
  prevent this, shut down Connman and wpa_supplicant before testing with (as
  root):

  1)
  killall connmand
  killall wpa_supplicant

  Reboot the device when finished to restore WLAN functionality. (Note: this
  applies to current Meego; future versions may differ.)

  OR

  2)
  The example configuration file has global parameters 'stopped_processes' 
  and 'restarted_processes' these can be used to stop/restart defined processes.
  NOTE: These parameters can be empty if 'killall' commands are used.
 
Test cases

* Core-WLAN-Enumerate hardware
	Check that expected PHYs are found, then dump all PHYs, interfaces,
	and available configuration data

* Core-WLAN-Enumerate supported features
	Dump commands and parameters that are supported by device/driver

* Core-WLAN-Scan for specific AP
 	Trigger a new scan with a given ssid and verify that AP is actually
 	found

* Core-WLAN-Associate with open AP
	Scan for open AP with a given ssid, after that do authentication and
	association requests, finally disconnect

* Core-WLAN-Associate with WEP encryption
	Scan for AP with a given ssid, after that set WEP encryption keys
	and do connection request, send DHCP discover and finally disconnect

* Core-WLAN-Scan and associate on max power save
	Set max power save on and scan for open AP with a given ssid, after
	that connect and finally disconnect. NOTE: overrides command line
	parameter -S (power save)

* Core-WLAN-Associate with WPA2-PSK AP
	Scan for AP with a given SSID, and associate. Perform WPA2 key
	exchange using pre-shared key. Verify connection using DHCP discover
	and finally disconnect.

* Core-WLAN-Disconnect with deauthenticate
	Scan for open AP with a given ssid, after that do connection
	request, send DHCP discover and finally disconnect using
	deauthenticate command while waiting until disconnect event is
	received.

* Core-WLAN-Disconnect with disassociate
	Scan for open AP with a given ssid, after that do connection
	request, send DHCP discover and finally disconnect using
	disassociate command while waiting until disconnect event is
	received.

* Core-WLAN-Disconnect with AP loss
	Scan for open AP with a given ssid, after that do connection
	request, send DHCP discover and start waiting until disconnect event
	is received. NOTE: Manual test where AP must be turned off in about
	60 seconds before test case can be continued.

* Core-WLAN-Disconnect from adhoc network
	Scan for open adhoc network with a given ssid, after that join a
	IBSS and verify connection by sending test data and using scan
	request, after that leave IBSS and verify that device is properly
	disconnected from adhoc network. NOTE: The requirement for this test
	case is existing adhoc network where DUT can be joined or optionally
	wlan station that supports adhoc connections. NOTE2: if there is no 
	existing adhoc network in the test environment "Core-WLAN-Establish 
	new adhoc network" can be also used as a counterpart for this test case.

* Core-WLAN-Establish new adhoc network
	Estabish new IBSS with no encryption, after that start receiving test 
	data packets and compare payload with expected data. This test case
	fails if adhoc network with same SSID already exists. NOTE: This test 
	case requires either "Core-WLAN-Join established adhoc network" or 
	optionally "Core-WLAN-Disconnect from adhoc network" as a counterpart  
	and must be run first.

* Core-WLAN-Join established adhoc network
	Scan for open adhoc network with a given ssid, after that join a
	IBSS and verify connection by sending test data that is verified in
	the other DUT. NOTE: This test case requires "Core-WLAN-Establish 
	new adhoc network" as a counterpart and must be run after it.
